AWS-Setup-Guide.md, before:

# AWS Setup Guide

You should have received an email regarding your AWS  
Educate account for this class. We will be using AWS to create virtual environments  
for you to use to complete the tasks given.

**Important Note:** This AWS environment only allows inbound access from following ports:

- 22

## Getting Started:

### Text Editors:

I recommend [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) as a cross platform solution (plus dark mode looks cool). You can also use any default text editor on your system (Notepad, Notepad++, or whatever Mac's have).

### Setup for Windows Users

1. Install WSL 2

- [Follow instructions on the Windows blog](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10#manual-installation-steps)
- Common pitfalls:
  - Windows is not fully up to date.
  - Did not reboot **before** running the change version command
- After installing Ubuntu from the Windows store, open Ubuntu once
  - After the installion message finishes, you should be prompted to create a username and password
  - [WSL2 Troubleshooting](#WSL-2-Install-Errors)

2. In later labs, you will need two terminals open. It is absolutely alright to open multiple instances of Ubuntu, but it can be convenient to have a "tab" based setup. I recommend `Windows Terminal` (can be found in the Windows Store) or `MobaXTerm` (installation instructions below)

3. Optional: [Download MobaXterm Home Edition: Installer Edition](https://download.mobatek.net/2062020111930940/MobaXterm_Installer_v20.6.zip)

- Extract the contents to your Desktop.
- Double-click to run the installer
- Once installed, run the program one time - this finishes the installation
- You can now delete the installation files
- Open Moba. You can now choose to run WSL Ubuntu _or_ Moba bash.
  - To change terminals, go to Settings -> Configuration. Select the Terminal tab. In the dropdown at the bottom, change from `bash` to `WSL Ubuntu`

4. If you **do not have administrative privileges** on the system, you will need to install MobaXTerm (step 3) and install Cygutils (instructions below) in order to perform the labs.

- In Moba, select the Packages icon at the top.
- Wait for the package menu to appear.
- In the search bar, type "cygutils". Select the package from the result listings
- Select Install / Update.
- Restart Moba. Start Local Terminal should work
- In the toolbar for Moba, go to Settings -> Configuration
- In the General tab, check the following two fields are populated with the following values:
  - Persistent home directory: `_MyDocuments_\MobaXterm\home`
  - Persistent root directory: `_MyDocuments_\MobaXterm\slash`

### Mac & Linux Users

- You should have a terminal already installed. Hunt it down ;)

## Before you start: Register for AWS Educate

You should have an email from AWS Educate to guide you through account creation.  
Note: The email was sent to your wright.edu email account

Once you have filled in the registration information and verified your email address, you will get an account  
approval email. For reference, mine took 2-3 minutes to arrive.

_Registration form warnings_:

- Make sure you set a graduation date IN THE FUTURE
  - For Spring 2021, I recommend using 12/30/2026
- The last field on the right is a Promotional Code field. Your autofill may mistake it for a  
  zip code and unhelpfully fill it out for you. Make sure the Promotional Code field is _blank_ (empty)

## Provision the lab environment in AWS.

Assuming you have registered for AWS Educate and have access to this class, perform the following:

- [Sign in to AWS educate](https://www.awseducate.com/signin/SiteLogin)

  - Click the `My Classrooms` Button
  - Click the blue `Go to classroom` button for _Systems Administration_
  - Click the blue `AWS Console` button

  This will launch the AWS console  
  Note: If you were already logged in with your personal account, click the log out prompt and  
  log back in with your university account

  Your username in the top right should look something like this  
  `vocstartsoft/user236529=lastname.number@wright.edu`.

Create an SSH key pair to get to your virtual machine.

- Click the Services menu, then select EC2 under Compute  
  [EC2 service from the AWS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Home:)  
  In the center area you should see a list of all Resources you have available.  
  Right now they should all be 0.
- Click on [Key Pairs](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#KeyPairs:sort=keyName)
- Click on the `Create Key Pair` blue button.
  - Choose the name for your key. I used `ceg2410-aws-vm`  
    **MAKE SURE YOU SELECT SSH (pem) as the key type**
  - This creates a public/private key pair, stores the public key in AWS, and downloads the private key to your local machine.
  - **Do not lose the downloaded key.**
  - Back it up to a USB drive or your Office365 account. Once you go through the steps below, this key will be the only way to log in to your AWS environment. If the key is lost, you will need to delete the environment and start from scratch.

Create your AWS environment

- Once you have created your SSH key, [click here to provision your AWS stack](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-1#/stacks/new?stackName=ceg2410&templateURL=https:%2F%2Fwsu-cecs-cf-templates.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com%2Fcourse-templates%2Fceg2410.yml)
  This link autofills many fields for creating our virtual machine.

  - On the first menu, click Next
  - On the second menu, under Parameters, type the name of the key pair you made in the  
    step above. If you don't remember, you can [open your key list here](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#KeyPairs:sort=keyName). Click Next
  - On the third menu, select Next
  - Scroll to the bottom and select Create Stack
  - You will be redirected to a status page that says CREATE_IN_PROGRESS

- Once it says CREATE_COMPLETE:

  - **WALK AWAY FOR ONE HOUR.** Not joking. Do not pass go, do not collect on hundred dollars. Close the tabs to resist tempation. Whatever it takes.

## Getting info to connect:

- Assuming you have **waited one hour** as previously stated.
- [Return to the EC2 service](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Home:)
  Here you should see additional resources have been created (not everything says 0 anymore)
- Click on [Running Instances](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Instances:sort=instanceState)
- You should see TWO instances. The instructions below will go through first time connecting instructions for each system.

**WARNING**
While exploring and discovery is an important part of this course, any additional resources you create in AWS have an associated charge. If resources besides those strictly asked for by this course stay running, you risk running out of funds for this course. Let me know if you need help cleaning up and / or check out the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) guide below.

## Connecting to the UBUNTU AWS environment

- In the [Running Instances](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Instances:sort=instanceState) menu, click the checkbox next to `CEG 2410 Ubuntu`
- A description menu will open up below.
- Identify the Public IPv4 Address in the middle column. This is the IP address you will need to connect to the machine via SSH

**You are now ready to make an SSH connection to your Ubuntu AWS server.**

- Open a terminal on your local system.
- Copy of the AWS SSH key that was downloaded to your home directory
  - Helpful commands: `cp, ls, man`
  - The manual method: Create a file with a useful name (or the same name as the downloaded file) `ceg2410-aws-vm.pem`
  - Open a text editor (`vim` or `nano`)
  - Copy and paste the contents of the key that was downloaded from AWS Educate into the file.
- Change the permissions on the key file in your directory
  - Because private keys need to be protected, the key needs to be changed to readable by your user by using `chmod`
  - `chmod 600 /path/to/private/key` - replace _/path/to/private/key_ with your information
  - Resource on how to use [chmod](https://www.howtogeek.com/437958/how-to-use-the-chmod-command-on-linux/)
- SSH into your AWS server with the following command  
   `ssh -i /path/to/private/key ubuntu@ElasticIP`  
   Note: replace _/path/to/private/key_ and _ElasticIP_ with your information
  - If your connection was refused, you may have forgotten to put the username `ubuntu` in front of your Elastic IP address
- You are now signed in to your AWS Educate system as the user `ubuntu`

## Connecting to the WINDOWS SERVER AWS Environment

- In the [Running Instances](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Instances:sort=instanceState) menu, click the checkbox next to `CEG 2410 Windows Server 2019`
- A description menu will open up below.
- Identify the Public IPv4 Address in the middle column. This is the IP address you will need to connect to the machine via Remote Desktop
- In the `Actions` tab (top right-ish), select `Security` then select `Get Windows password`
  - You will be prompted to upload or copy the contents of the key that was downloaded in the "Key Pair" step. Do so
  - Select `Decrypt Password`
  - The displayed password is the password for the account to log in to the Windows Server. Copy it to somewhere secure.

**You are now ready to make a remote desktop connection to your Windows AWS server.**

- Find a remote desktop software.
  - Remote Desktop Connection (Windows)
    - Enter IP address to CEG 2410 Windows Server 2019
    - The first time you connect will take **FOREVER** or about 5-10 minutes, just minimize the screen and be patient.
    - Once the log in screen comes up:
      - Username: `administrator`
      - Password: decrypted password from steps above
  - MobaXTerm
    - Type IP address in to bar on homepage or in Sessions bar, right click and select "New Session"
    - Select RDP from the options displayed (it has a little Windows logo in it)
    - Make sure the Remote Host Field has the IP address you are connecting to
    - For the Username field, enter `administrator`
    - The Port field should have `3389`
    - Select OK
    - You will be promped to enter the account password. This is the password you decrypted in the steps above.
    - The first time you connect will take **FOREVER** or about 5-10 minutes, just minimize the screen and be patient.
  - [Microsoft Remote Desktop](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/microsoft-remote-desktop/id1295203466?mt=12) (Macs)
    - Note: these instruction need to be verified. Please let me know your actual experience / steps so we can improve this documentation
    - Enter IP address to CEG 2410 Windows Server 2019
    - The first time you connect will take **FOREVER** or about 5-10 minutes, just minimize the screen and be patient.
    - Once the log in screen comes up:
      - Username: `administrator`
      - Password: decrypted password from steps above

## Git Going

1. Create or sign in to your [github](https://github.com/) account.
2. For this course, you will be receiving invites to assignments via GitHub Classrooms. Once you get the invite, you will need to select your @wright.edu email address from the list. This will create your repository and link it to your GitHub account.

## Git Passwordless (If you want)

Note you will need to create the key pair on any system you want to use passwordless authentication on.

1. [Create a key pair, upload public key (.\*\.pub) to github](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)
2. [Change your repo to authenticate with SSH (not HTTPS)](https://help.github.jp/enterprise/2.11/user/articles/changing-a-remote-s-url/)
3. [If you have errors, poke around here](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/error-permission-denied-publickey)

## Troubleshooting

### Destroying Excess Cloud Formations

1. Go to the Services dropdown, under Management and Governance, select CloudFormation
2. Select the unwanted Stack, then select Delete
   - It is important to remove old stacks. Each stack has a charge associated with it, so you risk running out of funds for this course. While fixable, this will delay your ability to complete labs on time.

### Remaking your AWS Educate environment

The steps below should only be needed if you lost your key from AWS Educate. If you still have your key but your enviromnent is broken, only follow steps 1-2, then go back to the instructions above and rebuild your stack.

1. Go to the Services dropdown, under Management and Governance, select CloudFormation
2. Select your Stack, then select Delete
   - It is important to remove old stacks. Each stack has a charge associated with it, so you risk running out of funds for this course. While fixable, this will delay your ability to complete labs on time.
3. Go to the Services Dropdown, under Compute select EC2
4. Select Key Pairs
5. Select your key pair(s) and select Delete.
6. Recreate your environment by following the steps above

### I have a Chromebook, and ssh in Terminal isn't working...

This guide here refers to a [Chrome Extension for SSH connections](https://www.lifewire.com/how-to-use-chromebook-ssh-client-4690108)

- To use your AWS Educate Private Key, you'll need to select "Import..." and browse to your  
  key file - you can then select your key from the dropdown.
- You may need to make a "failed" connection in order to get the permission to access files  
  questions to pop up.

### WSL 2 Install Errors

- Error message:

```
The requested operation could not be completed due to a virtual disk system limitation.
Virtual hard disk files must be uncompressed and unencrypted and must not be sparse.
```

- Follow [WSL2 VHD Issue Guide](https://utf9k.net/blog/wsl2-vhd-issue/)

### Acknowledgement

Credit to Matt Kijowski's GitHub Repo - [Lab 1 for Cyber Security Analysis](https://github.com/mkijowski/cyber-security-analysis-applied/blob/master/labs/lab1.md)

Commit message:

ssh keep alive for moba

AWS-Setup-Guide.md, after:

# AWS Setup Guide

You should have received an email regarding your AWS  
Educate account for this class. We will be using AWS to create virtual environments  
for you to use to complete the tasks given.

**Important Note:** This AWS environment only allows inbound access from following ports:

- 22

## Getting Started:

### Text Editors:

I recommend [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) as a cross platform solution (plus dark mode looks cool). You can also use any default text editor on your system (Notepad, Notepad++, or whatever Mac's have).

### Setup for Windows Users

1. Install WSL 2

- [Follow instructions on the Windows blog](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10#manual-installation-steps)
- Common pitfalls:
  - Windows is not fully up to date.
  - Did not reboot **before** running the change version command
- After installing Ubuntu from the Windows store, open Ubuntu once
  - After the installion message finishes, you should be prompted to create a username and password
  - [WSL2 Troubleshooting](#WSL-2-Install-Errors)

2. In later labs, you will need two terminals open. It is absolutely alright to open multiple instances of Ubuntu, but it can be convenient to have a "tab" based setup. I recommend `Windows Terminal` (can be found in the Windows Store) or `MobaXTerm` (installation instructions below)

3. Optional: [Download MobaXterm Home Edition: Installer Edition](https://download.mobatek.net/2062020111930940/MobaXterm_Installer_v20.6.zip)

- Extract the contents to your Desktop.
- Double-click to run the installer
- Once installed, run the program one time - this finishes the installation
- You can now delete the installation files
- Open Moba. You can now choose to run WSL Ubuntu _or_ Moba bash.
  - To change terminals, go to Settings -> Configuration. Select the Terminal tab. In the dropdown at the bottom, change from `bash` to `WSL Ubuntu`
- Keep your SSH session "alive"
  - `Settings` -> `Configuration`. In `SSH` tab, checkmark the box corresponding to `SSH keepalive`

4. If you **do not have administrative privileges** on the system, you will need to install MobaXTerm (step 3) and install Cygutils (instructions below) in order to perform the labs.

- In Moba, select the Packages icon at the top.
- Wait for the package menu to appear.
- In the search bar, type "cygutils". Select the package from the result listings
- Select Install / Update.
- Restart Moba. Start Local Terminal should work
- In the toolbar for Moba, go to Settings -> Configuration
- In the General tab, check the following two fields are populated with the following values:
  - Persistent home directory: `_MyDocuments_\MobaXterm\home`
  - Persistent root directory: `_MyDocuments_\MobaXterm\slash`

### Mac & Linux Users

- You should have a terminal already installed. Hunt it down ;)

## Before you start: Register for AWS Educate

You should have an email from AWS Educate to guide you through account creation.  
Note: The email was sent to your wright.edu email account

Once you have filled in the registration information and verified your email address, you will get an account  
approval email. For reference, mine took 2-3 minutes to arrive.

_Registration form warnings_:

- Make sure you set a graduation date IN THE FUTURE
  - For Spring 2021, I recommend using 12/30/2026
- The last field on the right is a Promotional Code field. Your autofill may mistake it for a  
  zip code and unhelpfully fill it out for you. Make sure the Promotional Code field is _blank_ (empty)

## Provision the lab environment in AWS.

Assuming you have registered for AWS Educate and have access to this class, perform the following:

- [Sign in to AWS educate](https://www.awseducate.com/signin/SiteLogin)

  - Click the `My Classrooms` Button
  - Click the blue `Go to classroom` button for _Systems Administration_
  - Click the blue `AWS Console` button

  This will launch the AWS console  
  Note: If you were already logged in with your personal account, click the log out prompt and  
  log back in with your university account

  Your username in the top right should look something like this  
  `vocstartsoft/user236529=lastname.number@wright.edu`.

Create an SSH key pair to get to your virtual machine.

- Click the Services menu, then select EC2 under Compute  
  [EC2 service from the AWS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Home:)  
  In the center area you should see a list of all Resources you have available.  
  Right now they should all be 0.
- Click on [Key Pairs](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#KeyPairs:sort=keyName)
- Click on the `Create Key Pair` blue button.
  - Choose the name for your key. I used `ceg2410-aws-vm`  
    **MAKE SURE YOU SELECT SSH (pem) as the key type**
  - This creates a public/private key pair, stores the public key in AWS, and downloads the private key to your local machine.
  - **Do not lose the downloaded key.**
  - Back it up to a USB drive or your Office365 account. Once you go through the steps below, this key will be the only way to log in to your AWS environment. If the key is lost, you will need to delete the environment and start from scratch.

Create your AWS environment

- Once you have created your SSH key, [click here to provision your AWS stack](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=us-east-1#/stacks/new?stackName=ceg2410&templateURL=https:%2F%2Fwsu-cecs-cf-templates.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com%2Fcourse-templates%2Fceg2410.yml)
  This link autofills many fields for creating our virtual machine.

  - On the first menu, click Next
  - On the second menu, under Parameters, type the name of the key pair you made in the  
    step above. If you don't remember, you can [open your key list here](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#KeyPairs:sort=keyName). Click Next
  - On the third menu, select Next
  - Scroll to the bottom and select Create Stack
  - You will be redirected to a status page that says CREATE_IN_PROGRESS

- Once it says CREATE_COMPLETE:

  - **WALK AWAY FOR ONE HOUR.** Not joking. Do not pass go, do not collect on hundred dollars. Close the tabs to resist tempation. Whatever it takes.

## Getting info to connect:

- Assuming you have **waited one hour** as previously stated.
- [Return to the EC2 service](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Home:)
  Here you should see additional resources have been created (not everything says 0 anymore)
- Click on [Running Instances](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Instances:sort=instanceState)
- You should see TWO instances. The instructions below will go through first time connecting instructions for each system.

**WARNING**
While exploring and discovery is an important part of this course, any additional resources you create in AWS have an associated charge. If resources besides those strictly asked for by this course stay running, you risk running out of funds for this course. Let me know if you need help cleaning up and / or check out the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) guide below.

## Connecting to the UBUNTU AWS environment

- In the [Running Instances](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Instances:sort=instanceState) menu, click the checkbox next to `CEG 2410 Ubuntu`
- A description menu will open up below.
- Identify the Public IPv4 Address in the middle column. This is the IP address you will need to connect to the machine via SSH

**You are now ready to make an SSH connection to your Ubuntu AWS server.**

- Open a terminal on your local system.
- Copy of the AWS SSH key that was downloaded to your home directory
  - Helpful commands: `cp, ls, man`
  - The manual method: Create a file with a useful name (or the same name as the downloaded file) `ceg2410-aws-vm.pem`
  - Open a text editor (`vim` or `nano`)
  - Copy and paste the contents of the key that was downloaded from AWS Educate into the file.
- Change the permissions on the key file in your directory
  - Because private keys need to be protected, the key needs to be changed to readable by your user by using `chmod`
  - `chmod 600 /path/to/private/key` - replace _/path/to/private/key_ with your information
  - Resource on how to use [chmod](https://www.howtogeek.com/437958/how-to-use-the-chmod-command-on-linux/)
- SSH into your AWS server with the following command  
   `ssh -i /path/to/private/key ubuntu@ElasticIP`  
   Note: replace _/path/to/private/key_ and _ElasticIP_ with your information
  - If your connection was refused, you may have forgotten to put the username `ubuntu` in front of your Elastic IP address
- You are now signed in to your AWS Educate system as the user `ubuntu`

## Connecting to the WINDOWS SERVER AWS Environment

- In the [Running Instances](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#Instances:sort=instanceState) menu, click the checkbox next to `CEG 2410 Windows Server 2019`
- A description menu will open up below.
- Identify the Public IPv4 Address in the middle column. This is the IP address you will need to connect to the machine via Remote Desktop
- In the `Actions` tab (top right-ish), select `Security` then select `Get Windows password`
  - You will be prompted to upload or copy the contents of the key that was downloaded in the "Key Pair" step. Do so
  - Select `Decrypt Password`
  - The displayed password is the password for the account to log in to the Windows Server. Copy it to somewhere secure.

**You are now ready to make a remote desktop connection to your Windows AWS server.**

- Find a remote desktop software.
  - Remote Desktop Connection (Windows)
    - Enter IP address to CEG 2410 Windows Server 2019
    - The first time you connect will take **FOREVER** or about 5-10 minutes, just minimize the screen and be patient.
    - Once the log in screen comes up:
      - Username: `administrator`
      - Password: decrypted password from steps above
  - MobaXTerm
    - Type IP address in to bar on homepage or in Sessions bar, right click and select "New Session"
    - Select RDP from the options displayed (it has a little Windows logo in it)
    - Make sure the Remote Host Field has the IP address you are connecting to
    - For the Username field, enter `administrator`
    - The Port field should have `3389`
    - Select OK
    - You will be promped to enter the account password. This is the password you decrypted in the steps above.
    - The first time you connect will take **FOREVER** or about 5-10 minutes, just minimize the screen and be patient.
  - [Microsoft Remote Desktop](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/microsoft-remote-desktop/id1295203466?mt=12) (Macs)
    - Note: these instruction need to be verified. Please let me know your actual experience / steps so we can improve this documentation
    - Enter IP address to CEG 2410 Windows Server 2019
    - The first time you connect will take **FOREVER** or about 5-10 minutes, just minimize the screen and be patient.
    - Once the log in screen comes up:
      - Username: `administrator`
      - Password: decrypted password from steps above

## Git Going

1. Create or sign in to your [github](https://github.com/) account.
2. For this course, you will be receiving invites to assignments via GitHub Classrooms. Once you get the invite, you will need to select your @wright.edu email address from the list. This will create your repository and link it to your GitHub account.

## Git Passwordless (If you want)

Note you will need to create the key pair on any system you want to use passwordless authentication on.

1. [Create a key pair, upload public key (.\*\.pub) to github](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)
2. [Change your repo to authenticate with SSH (not HTTPS)](https://help.github.jp/enterprise/2.11/user/articles/changing-a-remote-s-url/)
3. [If you have errors, poke around here](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/error-permission-denied-publickey)

## Troubleshooting

### Destroying Excess Cloud Formations

1. Go to the Services dropdown, under Management and Governance, select CloudFormation
2. Select the unwanted Stack, then select Delete
   - It is important to remove old stacks. Each stack has a charge associated with it, so you risk running out of funds for this course. While fixable, this will delay your ability to complete labs on time.

### Remaking your AWS Educate environment

The steps below should only be needed if you lost your key from AWS Educate. If you still have your key but your enviromnent is broken, only follow steps 1-2, then go back to the instructions above and rebuild your stack.

1. Go to the Services dropdown, under Management and Governance, select CloudFormation
2. Select your Stack, then select Delete
   - It is important to remove old stacks. Each stack has a charge associated with it, so you risk running out of funds for this course. While fixable, this will delay your ability to complete labs on time.
3. Go to the Services Dropdown, under Compute select EC2
4. Select Key Pairs
5. Select your key pair(s) and select Delete.
6. Recreate your environment by following the steps above

### I have a Chromebook, and ssh in Terminal isn't working...

This guide here refers to a [Chrome Extension for SSH connections](https://www.lifewire.com/how-to-use-chromebook-ssh-client-4690108)

- To use your AWS Educate Private Key, you'll need to select "Import..." and browse to your  
  key file - you can then select your key from the dropdown.
- You may need to make a "failed" connection in order to get the permission to access files  
  questions to pop up.

### WSL 2 Install Errors

- Error message:

```
The requested operation could not be completed due to a virtual disk system limitation.
Virtual hard disk files must be uncompressed and unencrypted and must not be sparse.
```

- Follow [WSL2 VHD Issue Guide](https://utf9k.net/blog/wsl2-vhd-issue/)

### Acknowledgement

Credit to Matt Kijowski's GitHub Repo - [Lab 1 for Cyber Security Analysis](https://github.com/mkijowski/cyber-security-analysis-applied/blob/master/labs/lab1.md)
