ProjectFormat.md, before:

# Guide to Lab Access

## Setup:

- Have a GitHub account

## Instructions

The Pilot page for this course contains links to the labs. These links will let you generate a repository for the corresponding lab.

- [Setup](#Setup)
- [How to use](#How-to-use)
- [Submission](#Submission)

### Setup

- Click the link in Pilot corresponding to the lab you are working on.
- Select your wright.edu email address from the list shown.
- Select `OK` on the popup to confirm you selected the correct email address.
  ![Accept Assignment](Images/github-classrooms-acceptassignment.png)
- Select `Accept this assignment`
- After a minute, refresh the next page. You'll see something similar to:
  ![You're ready to go!](Images/github-classrooms-success.png)
- Click the lower link / link that looks similar to: `https://github.com/WSU-kduncan/lab01-ceg2350-sp21-pattonsgirl`. The top link sometimes presents an "error" but things are actually fine.
- It may be convenient to bookmark each of these lab links for easy access.

### How to use

- The repositories created in this course are **private**. The only people with access are you, me, and the TAs for this course.
- Your answers to the labs are going to go in a `README.md` file that should already exist in the repository. You will edit this file with your lab answers.
- The lab writeup itself will exist in another file called `LabProcedure.md`.
- You may want to open these files in different tabs for easy access.
- Edit in GitHub (the website)
  - Click in to the file you want to edit
  - Click the pencil button on the right
  - To **save** your progress, go to the bottom of the page, where it says `Commit changes`.
  - Leave a message in the box where it says `Update README.md`, then select the green `Commit changes` confirmation button.
- To `clone` the repository:
  - Click the green `Code` button
  - Select `HTTPS` for username + password authentication or `SSH` for SSH key authentication
    - Ask in class, the Discord channel, or lab for assistance
  - In a terminal use `git clone` followed by the corresponding URL to clone your repository

### Submission

Copy URL / link to the dropbox corresponding to the project your are wokring on in Pilot.

Commit message:

verbage change: lab to project

ProjectFormat.md, after:

# Guide to project Access

## Setup:

- Have a GitHub account

## Instructions

The Pilot page for this course contains links to the projects. These links will let you generate a repository for the corresponding project.

- [Setup](#Setup)
- [How to use](#How-to-use)
- [Submission](#Submission)

### Setup

- Click the link in Pilot corresponding to the project you are working on.
- Select your wright.edu email address from the list shown.
- Select `OK` on the popup to confirm you selected the correct email address.
  ![Accept Assignment](Images/github-classrooms-acceptassignment.png)
- Select `Accept this assignment`
- After a minute, refresh the next page. You'll see something similar to:
  ![You're ready to go!](Images/github-classrooms-success.png)
- Click the lower link / link that looks similar to: `https://github.com/WSU-kduncan/project01-ceg2350-sp21-pattonsgirl`. The top link sometimes presents an "error" but things are actually fine.
- It may be convenient to bookmark each of these project links for easy access.

### How to use

- The repositories created in this course are **private**. The only people with access are you, me, and the TAs for this course.
- Your answers to the projects are going to go in a `README.md` file that should already exist in the repository. You will edit this file with your project answers.
- The project writeup itself will exist in another file called `projectProcedure.md`.
- You may want to open these files in different tabs for easy access.
- Edit in GitHub (the website)
  - Click in to the file you want to edit
  - Click the pencil button on the right
  - To **save** your progress, go to the bottom of the page, where it says `Commit changes`.
  - Leave a message in the box where it says `Update README.md`, then select the green `Commit changes` confirmation button.
- To `clone` the repository:
  - Click the green `Code` button
  - Select `HTTPS` for username + password authentication or `SSH` for SSH key authentication
    - Ask in class, the Discord channel, or project for assistance
  - In a terminal use `git clone` followed by the corresponding URL to clone your repository

### Submission

Copy URL / link to the dropbox corresponding to the project your are wokring on in Pilot.
